difference between Lenox 56 and seven.
Now,
as you gonna learn Lennox and you understand Lennox,
you'll know that you will be upgrading your system from different versions.
And the reason companies are livings distribution companies come up with different versions
is because they as their features existing features,
add new features and fix a lot of books.
So the reason im including this as part of a lesson or part of the training is because
maybe you have experience in Red Hat or Cento as five or six.
And now you is time to move on to seven.
And of course,
um,
in my trainings,
everything on seven.
So you should really know some off.
The difference is the primary differences between all these versions.
So Santo s and rail or red hat,
what are the major difference?
Well,
as I mentioned a few times,
Cento s and roll are both exactly the same.
The only and only difference is that is that Red hat provides support,
technical support to the customers,
and they also provide patches that break fixes.
Whereas santo us,
they do not.
It's a it's a free software and where you could get support in the community.
You just have to wait for someone to reply back when you post your answer your question.
So that's a primary difference.
Now,
what are the total worsens off Santo s and roll Red hat All the story from version zero
through all the way to seven.
Up to now,
whereas Santo s actually spun off the off off red hat when right have was at version two.
Um,
again,
the versions are the primary words in that we will be discussing our version 56 and seven.
I have ah Chee Chee,
which I have also attached with this lesson.
I'm gonna cover the chief sheet which you which will enable you to go over it and find out
what exactly the differences are.
So let's open up my she sheet.
It's a pdf document and I'm gonna code really quickly.
Um,
the differences off Red hat 56 and seven.
And please don't be surprised by looking at Hey,
this is only read had what happened to Cento us as I mentioned Santo s and Red hat is
exactly the same.
So let's start off with the first section right here says system basics so views
subscription information in five.
He had system I d six.
No changes.
Seven,
We have subscription manager,
which is in your command with identity Configure subscription.
When you want to register your system with red,
hot or very satellite,
then you'd run the command origin.
Underscore.
Registered 56 the same thing,
then five minutes.
Then at six,
they introduced subscription manager as well,
along with origin registered and in seven,
it's a subscription manager.
But now origin underscore.
Register is,
um someone deprecate id you putting.
They're gonna find in a lot of system a new abortion.
You system information how to get sa sir.
Poor d m.
I decode hardware browses some of these commands we have already learned stays the same in
six and seven.
The last command changes to L S H W,
which is list hardware to view the red hat version.
Information it is,
etc.
Red hat release.
It's the same across all the words is nothing has changed.
All you have to do is cat out this file and you will see the difference of you will see the
versions off your center s or red hat operating system.
So this is about system basics moving down the basic configuration.
When you configure your system,
there is a command in five and six system dash config and followed by a second or third
other commands attached to it.
You could look it up when you do.
Ls minus.
L on slash Ben.
You'll find these command in real 78 changed to genome Control Center Configured network We
have done that.
System CONFIG Network is a gooey based as well an m I C allies the newer utility that you
should get yourself familiar with.
Run this command.
This will allow you to configure your network,
then configure system languages.
Um,
different commands in six and seven configured time and date.
We have NTP,
uh,
in the older version five and six.
And the newer one is,
um,
crony,
Crony Sea or Cron E.
D is a demon.
You could modify the etc quality dot com file.
Recover that already in,
and I believe modules.
Seven.
Then configure keyboard.
A couple of different commands from 5 to 6 text.
Big configuration tool.
There are a few different differences,
but there are same across all versions.
Configure printers.
I'm sure you don't have to worry about it cause a lot of times the next servers are not
attached to Lennox of sorry to printers or fax machines.
Configure samba,
same commands,
nothing change.
Configure a cessation.
Nothing changed.
Everything's sink.
Now we're talking about jobs and services.
There is configured logging is R a cist law dot com file and five and in six they changed
toe RCIs log dot com file because our stands for remote so you could also get remote logs
from remote servers so they enhanced it at immune new features.
Well,
same thing.
Our system is completely gone now.
It's replaced with RCIs log lists of services you could do check config,
dash dash lifts.
This is to see what are the services that are enabled at Bhutan.
But in seven,
it has changed.
Everything is controlled by system CTL.
Now,
if you want to see the list of all the services you could do system CTL I leave,
um space dash dash list.
It will give you all the listing off services running or access this running process
service Dash s status.
All,
um,
in roll seven again.
System CTL start and stop the Service Service Command Service Command.
And here we have system CTL command system CTL commit.
These are the type of service we learn in modules.
Seven.
So pay close attention how they are changing.
So don't be surprised.
You should know both commands because if you are going into an environment where they have
a red hat 45 or six and seven as well.
So you should know which command can be used where there aren't a lot of changes in the
command.
But some of these commands that will make a difference.
That that's why I want to make sure they are covered.
Check configures a command that will enable service at boot time.
And now system CTL.
Does that service the same thing?
Check unfixed.
Same thing.
Um,
we talk about something wrong.
Levels now run run level has been controlled by system CDL as well That run the level can
be changed by going to that seeinit tab.
Now it is going through the command line.
You could change.
You can make the changes to their own level by running these commands You lost.
Nothing changed in war long war log.
But now there's a new command called journal CTL ritual provide you more information about
the logging configure system audit.
We do not have covered that thistles mawr off system that are facing on the Internet or
more vulnerable to this hackers attack.
But most of the systems most Olynyk machines are behind firewalls.
So there isn't much you have to know about this,
but it's good that you should know,
and nothing has changed.
That's up main thing.
So not to worry about what you need to know what you don't at sea,
Pam.
D that system off if you remember,
we covered that in in a lesson.
Where I the lesson where you're doing the oars hardening how to harden or secure your
system.
Um,
moving on Cron at job.
Everything is the same.
I'm not gonna cover every detail here because all of all of them are same.
Nothing changed.
Then.
We have kernel boot and hardware.
What has changed?
Um,
single user rescue mode.
some of these changes are with the configuration file changes shut down before we have shut
down just to command.
But now you run system CDL followed by the shutdown.
Same thing.
Everything is the same.
Same commands except now you define system CTL command preceding the actual command.
The file change we talked about this group fly location has changed the rest all same.
Nothing has changed then.
Software management junk install Young group installed everything on the command itself.
John is the same.
Except this part where they had junk group install as one word.
Now they have,
um,
added space between group and install.
Now someone would ask me a question.
Hey,
Imron,
why would they make these changes or why they put a space or why they make up a command
different?
Honestly,
this just I don't know.
That's the way the standard works.
It's just that,
like,
you could ask the question why Apple comes up with a different,
um,
look different.
Icahn's They just want people to embrace newer features.
New technology,
your icon.
So that's what pretty much it,
of course.
I also think that,
you know,
looking at the same thing again again,
you get bored.
The change is always good.
That's why every window,
every,
um,
opening system provider chain make changes like Microsoft and red Red hat slurs.
Anyway,
so on moving,
Let's move to the right side.
I'm gonna go up all the way to the top.
And the task is user management.
Nothing changed everything to create yours and delete user change.
Password.
Everything is the same.
So you don't have to worry about using management,
security and identity.
I'm glad nothing changed because security is something.
Um,
if you don't want to mess with If you make a mistake,
it could make your system vulnerable or create a a leak in your system.
Anyway,
nothing has changed.
You don't have to remember any new commands.
File systems.
Let's see.
Fall system volumes and discs.
There are few things that have changed.
Um,
in rail five and six.
We have file system 63 4 seven.
We have exit fous Every new version.
Have a newer,
faster file system now,
except fesses a lot faster.
I covered that in module to or module three were covered by the file system.
What Paula system is then,
some off the changes,
like port disk on the added new utility coming down to Mont file system looks the same.
P create creating Wally management.
Everything looks the same.
There's nothing changed on on mounting the follow system for dealing with file system.
Then we have no working.
Um I p tables is the command to enable firewall rules.
Now we change it to firewall that cmd firewalled as config,
which is a gooey This is something that we cover.
Um,
in module seven.
then we have to configure d c decline a few of the configuration file changed at Syria's
old etc.
Host name?
Where do you define your host name?
Same thing at sea host at sea.
Result a cough.
But now they added a new utility NMC ally con M o d.
I believe this command updates thes falls for you,
so you have to manually add them.
I never used it,
but if you want fried,
go ahead and use it.
Um,
configure host name at sea sis config Network.
And now the new utility is host name CTL Recovered that while you were changing the host
name,
I believe in module for um I p is the new command be Have I p confected mostly recovered in
our training.
Now the newer version off rail seven has,
um I p command.
So I p configure has been deprecate id.
You could have that command if you install Net dash utility package that will allow you to
run if conflict but don't get used to wear Just,
you know,
be ready to use the new command,
which is I p configured network interface.
The path is the same.
Nothing changed.
But now you could do update or hat I peas or updates your configuration files to the
command and m c a lot.
Ah,
the arrest looks the same.
Going to resource management.
All these commands are the same top PSR top there few commands that it probably added.
Looks like t you and a tuna.
I really don't know what it does,
but I should look into it.
And you should,
too.
They're your thinks.
It's definitely something with the resource management.
It tells you what other resources available.
What are the resident?
Um,
contention?
On the network side,
there were distress.
Resource is so anyway,
view disc information,
d f I was stabbed.
We both covered that and the rest off the commands are all the same.
So these are the commands I wanted to cover.
So you should be familiar and be ready when you see new commands.
Don't be surprised.
Hey,
I never called that in training.
Hope it's their guys.
Try these commands out and you ready to face the challenges in actually corporate
environment.